# remote-team-building

This project contains the back-end for a serverless API application. It includes the following files and folders.

- RemoteTeamBuilding/src/main - Code for the application's Lambda functions.
- RemoteTeamBuilding/src/test - Unit tests for the application code.
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. 


## Build and deploy the application:
```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `RemoteTeamBuilding/pom.xml`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

## Run the API locally:
```bash
sam local start-api
curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. 
The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
      Events:
        RemoteTeamBuilding:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            Path: /hello
            Method: get
```


## Run Unit Tests:

Unit tests are defined in the `RemoteTeamBuilding/src/test` folder in this project.

```bash
cd RemoteTeamBuilding
mvn test
```


## View Logs:

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. 
In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.
You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

```bash
sam logs -n <FunctionName> --stack-name <StackName> --tail
```


## Cleanup:

To delete the application resources in AWS, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name <StackName>
```



## Links
SAM Resources: [SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md)
Standard AWS Cloudformation Resources [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

Introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts: 


[AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html)


[SAM Workshop](https://catalog.workshops.aws/complete-aws-sam/en-US/module-0-getting-started)


Deploy ready to use Apps: [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
